AWS
Cloud / AWS Overview
How would you describe AWS? What is "the cloud" or "cloud computing" and why is it so popular now?
 Amazon Web Services is a cloud platform/infrastrucure with pay as you go services built for a variaty of applications.
 Cloud computing is using a 3rd party's data centers for data storage, network, and other needs
 Cloud computing is popular because of it's scalabilty, durability, no need to manage hardware or provide upgrades, all leading to better cost savings


Define Infrastructure, Platform, and Software as a Service
Iaas : Infrastucture as a Service -> User will need to manage applications, runtime environment, middleware and operating system, and example of this is AWS's EC2
Paas : Platform as a Service -> Users need to managa applications and runtime environment
Saas : Software as a service -> Users will not need to manage any of the services (everything is abstracted). 


What's the difference between a Region and an Availability Zone (AZ)?
AWS region is a geographical location with physical data centers (independent of other regions


How are you charged for using AWS services? Does it vary by service?
	Not for the 1st year if you have have never used it. 
	It does vary service by service depending on size and speed you need. 

Different ways to interact with AWS services?
	Dbeaver, AMI

Also do practicals and unix/linux
	
Practicals
Given the following table 'employees'...

id	firstName	lastName	salary	dept
1	Michael	Scott	65	Sales
2	Dwight	Schrute	75	Sales
3	Toby	Flenderson	80	HR
4	Jim	Halpert	90	Sales
5	Oscar	Martinez	90	Accounting
6	Angela	Martin	75	Accounting
7	Kevin	Malone	70	Accounting
8	Holly	Flax	60	HR
9	Creed	Branton	70	Quality Assurance
Write a query to find all data in the table
	select * from employees;

Write a query to find employees with a salary over 75
	select * from employees where salary > 75;

Write a query to find employees whose first name contains an 'e' or whose last name begins with 'S'\
	select * from employees where lastName  like 'S%'
	union 
	select * from employees where firstName like '%e%';

Write a query to find the first name of all employees who do not work in accounting
	select firstName from employees where dept != 'Accounting' ;

Write a query to find the average salary of all employees whose last names begin with 'M'
	select avg(Salary) from employees where lastName like 'M%';

Write a query to find the highest paid salesperson
	select max(Salary) from employees where dept = 'Sales';

Write a query to combine the resultsets of any two previous queries
	select * from employees where dept != 'Accounting'
	union 
	select * from employees where lastName  like 'S%';
	
Remove all members of accounting from the database
	delete from employees where dept = 'Accounting';

Given removing the dept column from the employees table and creating a table 'department' and linking the two via a foreign key relationship

dept_id	name
1	Sales
2	HR
3	Accounting
4	Customer Service
Write a query to find the salary of the lowest paid salesperson (HINT: use a join)
	select min(employees.salary) from employees 
	join
	department on employees.dept_id = dept.dept_id where dept = 'Sales';
Write a query to find the average salary of each department
	select avg(employees.salary), distinct(employees.dept) from department
	join
	employees on dept. = dept.dept_id
Write a query to find all possible combinations of employees and departments. How many records do you expect?
	32	
	select from employees cross join department
	

Change the name of department 4 to 'Quality Assurance'

Remove both tables

	drop table employees;
	drop table department;


Write a basic bash script

ie: installing java/maven/git to an ec2
sudo y7um update
sudo yum install git
maven compile  exec:java
sudo yum install java-1.8.0-openjdk-devel

if you're feeling ambitious, a script that would delete a file if it exists
 echo "Who am I conversing with?"
 read ENTRY
 echo "A pleasure to make your acquaintance $ENTRY